#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck:n8n Automation
What is n8n?	A visual drag-and-drop workflow automation tool that connects apps, APIs, and AI together — without complex code. Used to build automations for SME clients.
What is an n8n workflow?	A set of automated instructions that connects multiple apps. Example: every day at 9am → send an email with today's date.
What is an n8n trigger?	The starting node of every workflow. It listens for an event and fires the workflow when that event occurs. Every workflow must start with a trigger.
What are the 3 core trigger types in n8n?	1. Manual Trigger (click to execute — for testing), 2. Schedule Trigger (time-based — daily/weekly), 3. Webhook (fires when another system sends data)
What is an n8n node?	A single step in a workflow. Each node does one thing: connects to an app, transforms data, or makes a decision. Nodes flow left to right on the canvas.
What is OAuth2 in the context of n8n credentials?	A secure authentication method — the "Sign in with Google" style login. n8n stores the token, not your password. Used to connect Gmail, Google Sheets etc.
What does the n8n Schedule Trigger do?	Fires a workflow automatically at a set time or interval. Example: every day at 9:00am, every Monday, every 30 minutes.
What is an n8n expression and how do you write one?	A dynamic value inside double curly braces: {{ }}. Example: {{ $now.format('dd-LLL-yyyy') }} outputs today's date like "08-Sep-2026".
What does $now represent in n8n?	The current date and time. Used in expressions to create dynamic values. Example: {{ $now.format('DD/MM/YYYY') }} → "08/09/2026"
What are the 13 core n8n nodes (the 80/20)?	5 categories: Triggers (Manual, Schedule, Webhook), Data (Split Out, Aggregate, Set, IF, Code), Connectivity (HTTP Request, Webhook Response), Storage (Google Sheets, Database), AI (LLM Chain, AI Agent)
What does the n8n Set node (Edit Fields) do?	Creates and modifies data fields in the workflow. The most versatile and commonly used node in n8n.
What does the n8n IF node do?	Splits the workflow into two paths based on a condition: TRUE path (condition met) and FALSE path (condition not met). Enables branching logic.
What does the n8n Split Out node do?	Flattens an array into individual items. Example: 1 array containing 5 leads → 5 separate items that can each be processed individually.
What does the n8n Aggregate node do?	Merges individual items back into a single array. The opposite of Split Out.
What does the n8n HTTP Request node do?	Calls any external API using GET, POST, PUT, DELETE etc with authentication. Works with any service that has an API — even without a built-in n8n integration.
What is sequential execution in n8n?	By default n8n runs nodes one after another (synchronously), not in parallel. Node B doesn't start until Node A completes.
What is the "nodes run once per input" rule in n8n?	If 5 items enter a node, that node runs 5 separate times — once for each item. 5 inputs = 5 executions of that node.
What is the difference between Active and Inactive workflows in n8n?	Inactive = only runs when you manually click Execute (testing mode). Active = runs automatically on its trigger (production mode). Must activate to run on a schedule or webhook.
When should you use an AI Agent node vs a Basic LLM Chain in n8n?	LLM Chain = when AI makes a single judgement call (sentiment, classify, summarise). AI Agent = when AI needs tools, memory, or multi-step decision-making.
What is n8n Cloud pricing and what does it include?	~£24/month: 2,500 workflow executions, 5 active workflows, automatic updates, backups, no server maintenance. Free 14-day trial available.
