#separator:tab
#html:false
#deck:n8n Automation
#tags:n8n section6 seo day04

What percentage of Google users never go past Page 1 of search results?	93% — which is why SEO visibility is critical for any business

What is "reverse engineering a SaaS" in the context of n8n automation?	Identifying a paid tool's inputs, processing steps, and outputs — then rebuilding those exact steps as n8n workflows without the monthly fees

What are the 6 components of the OutRank-style SEO system built in Section 6?	6 n8n workflows + Airtable database + Airtable Interface (front-end)

What are the V1 and V2 versions of the SEO content system?	V1 = Airtable as database AND front-end interface (no auth); V2 = proper front-end (Lovable/Retool) + Supabase database with user authentication

What does ICP stand for and what are the 5 fields the ICP Generator produces?	Ideal Customer Profile. Fields: (1) Product description (2) Who are the ICP? (3) Pain points/Challenges (4) Key Goals/Objectives (5) How do they currently solve problems?

How does the Airtable "Generate info" button trigger an n8n workflow?	The button sends a webhook request to n8n, passing the Airtable record_id — n8n then reads that record and processes it

What is DataForSEO and what does it provide?	A cheap, readily available API that returns keyword volume, difficulty scores, related keywords, competitor keyword rankings, and more

How do you authenticate with the DataForSEO API in n8n?	Base64 encode "email:password" → use as HTTP Basic Auth header — value format: "Basic <base64_string>" — store as a credential in n8n, not hardcoded

What is a seed keyword vs a long-tail keyword?	Seed keyword = broad topic (e.g. "cars for sale") — high competition. Long-tail = specific phrase (e.g. "red cars under £2000 in Leicester") — low competition, easier to rank for

What is a topic cluster in SEO?	Hub article (targets broad/seed keyword) + spoke articles (each targets a long-tail keyword) — all spokes internally link back to the hub. This structure boosts overall SEO ranking

What are the 4 methods DataForSEO uses to find sub-keywords?	(1) Related keywords (semantic similarity) (2) Keyword suggestions (autocomplete-style) (3) Keyword ideas (broader expansion) (4) Competitor keywords (what rivals rank for)

Why should you UPDATE a Keywords table row rather than CREATE a new one?	The keyword rows already exist with their links to the Company table. Updating enriches existing rows with subtopic data — creating new rows would break the relational links

What is Perplexity sonar-pro used for in this SEO system?	As the research agent tool — it searches the web and returns cited information (statistics, examples, expert quotes) to enrich each section of the blog article

What is the two-model approach for article creation?	Step 1: Use a reasoning/planning model (chain-of-thought) to create a structured outline. Step 2: Use a creative writing model to write the full article following that plan

What happens if you write each article section in isolation (without context)?	Output is disjointed, repetitive, and short — sections may cover the same research and lack narrative flow. Each section must see the full plan AND previously written sections

Why did the first writing test only produce 659 words instead of 1,800?	Sections were written in isolation — the model lacked full context of the article plan and previously written sections, so it underperformed on length and quality

How should you pass context to the writing model to achieve 1,800+ words?	Include the FULL article outline at the start of the prompt + append previously written sections to each new section prompt — the model writes with full continuity like a real writer

What model is recommended for long-form content writing and why?	Claude 3.5 Sonnet — superb reasoning and creative writing ability; GPT-4o is also good (large context, reliable); GPT-4o mini is better for short-form only

What are the 5 quality markers of a good AI-generated blog article?	(1) 1,000+ words (2) Cited with external sources (3) Sounds human — beats AI detectors (4) Includes engaging elements (tables, lists, images) (5) Internally linked to related articles

What is an Airtable Interface and how is it used in the SEO system?	A visual no-code front-end built on top of Airtable tables — users see buttons, forms, and views instead of raw spreadsheet data — used as the V1 front-end for this system

What is the purpose of the Content Planning Workflow (Workflow 4)?	Takes a subtopic + ICP + seed keyword → generates a structured H2 outline with 5–8 sections, key points per section, research questions, and word count targets — BEFORE any writing starts

What does "global article instructions" mean in Airtable and how is it used?	A free-text field in the Company table (e.g. "always include practical examples, use UK spelling") — this is passed into every article prompt to personalise content for that company's brand voice

What are the 5 front-end options evaluated for Version 2 of the SEO system?	(1) Lovable — AI-generated UIs from a chat window (2) Softer — drag-and-drop visual builder (3) Web — visual + code hybrid (4) Retool — internal tools specialist (5) Airtable Interfaces — simple, data-connected

Why does the SEO system need to read existing blog content before generating new articles?	To avoid "keyword cannibalisation" — rewriting articles about keywords you already rank for. The system reads your sitemap to know what has been written and avoids duplicating those topics

What is keyword cannibalisation and why is it a problem?	Writing two articles targeting the same keyword — they compete against each other in Google rankings, splitting authority and reducing the chance either article ranks well
